What did you take away from the Introduction?



LS170 is about networking communication. The way the network works affects how web applications work. Therefore it is fundamental knowledge for both the short term and your larger career.

This course is about building a mental model of the communication between networked applications as the interaction of multiple different protocols, or systems of rules.

We will start by learning about the physical network, and then move up the layers of abstraction to understand what is happening when applications communicate with each other on the internet.

We will be learning about internet protocols.











###### Try 2

In LS170 we will be learning about network communication, and how that forms the basis for the way networked applications function. This foundational knowledge that we will leverage both in later courses and for the rest of our careers.

Mental model of communication between networked applications: the interaction of multiple different protocols (systems of rules.)

First we will be looking at how the internet works on a physical level, and then moving up levels of abstraction to look at what is actually happening when applications communicate with each other over the network.











###### Try 3

LS170 is about Network communication and how it builds the basis for how networked applications function. Understanding this is fundamental to how networked applications work, and will be important for both later classes and your whole career.



###### 3:55PM 11/3/19

LS170 is about networked applications. What we will learn will form a foundation for other classes and your career. 



###### 4:00pm 11/3/19

The focus of this course is network communication.

Goal: Build a mental model of communication between networked applicaitons as the interaction of multiple different protocols, or systems of rules. 

Start with the physical level, and then working up to various layers of abstraction to gain a deeper understanding of network communication.





















