### What is the Internet?

###### 4:23pm 11/3/19

The internet is a network of networks.

Fundamentally, a network is just two computers that are connected that can communicate with one another. This is called a Local Area Network or LAN.

More commonly though, there are mutlple computers in a LAN and so they use a hub or a switch to connect them to each other.

The scope of communication is limited to the devices that are connected to the network switch or hub.

Zooming out, a router can connect the LAN to another network. And thus the internet is a network of networks.

Within a Local Area Network routrs act as a gateways into and out of the network.



###### 4:30pm 11/3/19

What is the internet? - A network of networks

What is a network? - Two devices that are connected so that they can exchange data.

What is  LAN? - A Local Area Network. Often this is multiple computers connected to a hub or switch. Could be a wireless hub, and therefore a WLAN. Scope of communication in a LAN is limited to devices that are connected to the network switch or hub.

Inter-network Communication - Routers can send network traffic to other networks. They act as gateways into and out of the Local Area Network.

A Network of Networks - Systems of routers direct network traffic between many Local Area Networks.

In reality, the topology of the overall network is a bit more complex than this, but in terms of having a mental model on which to build more abstract networking concepts, this will do.

