### Protocols

There is countless variety of devices on the internet, types of hubs, switches, routers, and servers. This creates a huge amount of complexity. How do we ensure that communication between two different computers works the same way as two different computers?

Protocols.

A protocol is a system of rules.

More specifically, a protocol is a set of rules governing the exchange or transmission of data.

There are numerous different protocols that are used to communicate over the internet.

Why are there so many different protocols for network communication?

1. Different Protocols were developed to address different aspects of network communication.
2. Different protocols were developed the same aspect of network communication, but in a different way or for a specific use-case.

#####Protocols for Different Aspects of Communication

One aspect of communication is:

Syntactical rules that govern the structure of the message.

A different aspect of communication is:

The flow and order of all the messages in the conversation. For example, speking in turn rather than both at the same time.

##### Different Protocols for the Same Aspect of Communication

Classroom vs. social conversation between friends vs. a presentation at a conference. All of these are concerned with the same aspect of communication- the flow and order of the message transfer. But each use a different set of rules, or protocols.

We can think of network communication protocols in the same way.

TCP and UDP are protocols that address the same basic aspect of communication, the transfer of messages between applications, but do so in different ways.

TCP and HTTP would be examples of two protocols that address different aspects of communication; TCP the transfer of messages between applications, and HTTP the structure of those messages.